    title:  use volunteers.accessnews.org subdomain for volunteer coordination

    date:   2022-12-03 10:35 (created)

    status: accepted

## Context

[accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org) is the page is for subscribers (to access content online, to get information about the service such as updates, the publication guide, etc.), but instructional materials for volunteers (guides, how-tos, etc.) and the coordination of their work (assignments, submissions, etc.) also need a home online.

## Decision

Given that we would also like to accomodate Access News volunteers using the [accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org) apex domain, there are only two ways to achieve this: using subdirectories (e.g., `accessnews.org/volunteers`) or subdomains (e.g., `volunteers.accessnews.org`).

As mentioned above, [accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org) is for the subscribers, so volunteer-related information (which is completely irrelevant to subscribers) shouldn't be kept there. Therefore the only choice really is using a subdomain.

## Consequences

Pros:

+ Subscribers won't accidentally stumble onto irrelevant pages that would just slow them down in discovering the service (especially if they are visually impaired).

+ Clean separation of where the web applications (one for volunteers and one for subscribers) "live" online.

+ Information between sites (i.e., [accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org) and `volunteers.accessnews.org`) can be shared by links (e.g., links to the publication guide).

  > NOTE: This also appears under "Cons:", because excessive cross-linking may cause the same noise that we were trying to avoid to begin with.

Cons:

+ Extra DNS maintenance for the domains (I guess).

+ (configuration overhead) The sub- and apex domains need to be served separately, requiring 2 web servers (or 2 instances of the same one).

+ Keep in mind what should go where, and try to limit cross-references between the two sites.

  A corollary is that information may need to duplicated (e.g., because it is useful to both groups, but doesn't clearly belong to either of them) or elaborate solutions are needed to share the same data.

  Although, if the above is needed, it may be an indicator that this specific information needs a new, distinct place to live (probably another subdomain; e.g., `docs.` TODO: Link future ADR.)

Unknown:

+ search engine optimization (SEO) impacts

  [Subdomains and upper level domains count as 2 distinct websites](https://blog.cloudflare.com/subdomains-vs-subdirectories-best-practices-workers-part-1/) (disparate even), so SEO advantages gained by the apex domain (in this case, by [accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org)) are not applied to its subdomains. This shouldn't be an issue, because the volunteer page will be a dynamic web application solely for coordinating volunteer work; the main domain is what counts as that will be used to improve discoverability of the services.

  Not a SEO expert, hence listing this under "unknown".

vim: set tabstop=2 shiftwidth=2 expandtab:
