    title:  use subscribers.accessnews.org subdomain to serve content and information to subscribers

    date:   2022-12-03 11:27
    status: rejected

## Context

> NOTE
> This is an experimental ADR to see whether rejected proposals have any value in documentation. I would say yes, but only time will tell. There is also a question in the "Consequences" section that may require us to re-think this, and, eventually, reverse this decision and accept it.

With the acceptance of [ADR "use volunteers.accessnews.org subdomain for volunteer coordination"](./20221203_103534-volunteers.accessnews.org_subdomain.md), the question came up naturally whether subscribers should also have a dedicated subdomain (that would be the home of their future web app).

## Decision

Rejected this proposal as the purpose of Access News is to serve eligible users with access to recordings as easily as possible, so, logically, [accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org) is exactly the website one would expect to find the user facing information and services.

There also seems to be no upside in splitting [accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org) apex domain any further, and it may even complicate things:

+ If both groups have a dedicated subdomain that holds all the information for them, then [accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org) would simply be a one page static website with 2 links to direct visitors. For subscribers, this is an extraneous step.

+ Not sure about the SEO impact (see ADR mentioned in "Context" above), but there seems to be no point in promoting a subdomain instead of an apex domain, if the purpose of both is the same.

## Consequences

Unknown:

+ Would it be beneficial to host all static files (general info, publication guide, blog, update, etc.) in [accessnews.org](https://accessnews.org) and serving the content via automatic redirection after login to `subscribers.accessnews.org`?

  This approach makes sense, because the web app will probably be complicated enough, and when the static files are updated, it will need to be committed to whole app. Nonetheless, the separation could be made **without** using subdomains in this case, by simply serving the static content from one server (or GitHub pages) and the dynamic parts from the other, and mix the two together using subdirectories so the code would live in separate repos.

vim: set tabstop=2 shiftwidth=2 expandtab:
